=======================================
About SeaChest Command Line Diagnostics
=======================================
Seagate offers both graphical user interface (GUI) and command line interface
(CLI) diagnostic tools for our storage devices.  SeaTools for Windows and
SeaTools Bootable for end users are the two most popular GUI tools.  These
tools support 15 languages.

SeaChest diagnostics are command line utilities which are available for expert
users.  These command line tools assume the user is knowledgeable about running
software from the operating system command prompt.  CLI tools are in the
English language only and use "command line arguments" to define the various
tasks and specific devices.  SeaChest diagnostics are available for both Linux
and Windows environments.

Linux versions of SeaChest tools are available as stand alone 32 or 64-bit
executables you can copy to your own system.  Windows OS versions of SeaChest
diagnostics are installed through a typical setup wizard and can be removed via
the Control Panel.

In addition, Seagate offers a tool to build a bootable USB SeaChest flash drive
which boots to a 64-bit Linux command prompt.  This is a Windows executable
file which formats a USB Flash drive you provide.  It copies over all the files
needed to use it as a bootable device for the SeaChest diagnostic software.
All data on the USB Flash drive will be erased so be sure to protect any
valuable files.

Technical Support for SeaChest drive utilities is not available.  If you have
the time to send us some feedback about this software, especially if you notice
something we should fix or improve, we would greatly appreciate hearing from
you.  To report your comments and suggestions, please use this email
seaboard@seagate.com.  Please let us know the name and version of the tool you
are using.

SeaChest drive utilities support SATA, SAS and USB interface devices.

SeaChest Basics - Contains the most important tests and tools.

Other SeaChest "break out" utilities are available and listed below which offer
more in-depth functionality in specific areas. These are:

SeaChest Configure - Tools to control various settings on the drives are
brought together into this one tool.  Typical commands, for example, include
Write Cache and Read Lookahead Cache enable or disable.

SeaChest Erase - The focus is on data erasure.  There are many different
choices for erasing data from simple boot track erase to full cryptographic
erasure (when supported).  Be sure to back up important data before using this
tool.  Seagate is not responsible for lost user data.  This tool only works on
Seagate drives.

SeaChest Firmware - Seagate products are run by firmware.  Having the latest
firmware can improve performance and or reliability of your product.  Seagate
recommends applying new firmware to enhance the performance and or reliability
of your drive.  Most products may see one or two firmware updates within the
early life of the product.

SeaChest Format - Storage products which utilize the SAS, SCSI or Fibre
Channel interfaces are able to perform a full low-level media format in the
field.  The SCSI Format Unit command offers many specialty options to
accommodate a variety of conditions and to fine tune the procedure. This tool
also support NVMe format and SATA sector size changes a.k.a. Fast Format. 
Also in this tool is the ability to depopulate a head from use as it wears out
so that the device can continue being used at a reduced capacity until completely
worn out. These complex commands deserve their own "break out" utility.

SeaChest GenericTests - Read Tests are the original disk drive diagnostic which
is to just read every sector on the drive, sequentially.  This tool offers
several common read tests which can be defined by either time or range.  In
addition, the Long Generic test has the ability to repair problem sectors,
possibly eliminating an unnecessary drive return.

SeaChest Info - Historical generic activity logs (like total bytes written and
power on hours) and performance logs (like temperature) are available for
analytical review.  Identification and inquiry data stored on the drive is also
provided.  A view of SMART and device statistics is available when supported by
the drive.

SeaChest NVMe - contains some options specific to NVMe devices. This tool started
as a test tool and many options are present in other SeaChest utilities now.

SeaChest PowerControl - Seagate disk drives offer a multitude of options to
manage power.  This tool manipulates the various power modes.

SeaChest Security - Various settings are available on modern Seagate disk
drives which may be locked and unlocked.  These settings may interact with the
operating systems and systems BIOS.  Options also include cryptographic erase
for Self-Encrypting Drives (SED).

SeaChest SMART - This tool provides a closer look at the collected SMART
attributes data.  SMART stands for Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting
Technology.  Short Drive Self Test is included as one of the standard SMART
commands. In addition, the DST & Clean test has the ability to repair problem
sectors, possibly eliminating an unnecessary drive return.

=================================
Support and Open Source Statement
=================================
Seagate offers technical support for disk drive installation.  If you have any
questions related to Seagate products and technologies, feel free to submit
your request on our web site. See the web site for a list of world-wide
telephone numbers.

Seagate Support:
http://www.seagate.com/support-home/
Contact Us:
http://www.seagate.com/contacts/

This software uses open source packages obtained with permission from the
relevant parties. For a complete list of open source components, sources and
licenses, please see our Linux USB Boot Maker Utility FAQ for additional
information.

SeaChest Utilities use libraries from the opensea source code projects.  These
projects are maintained at http://github.com/seagate.
The libraries in use are opensea-common, opensea-transport and
opensea-operations. These libraries are available under the Mozilla Public
License 2.0, license shown below.

The newest online version of the SeaChest Utilities documentation, open source
usage and acknowledgement licenses can be found at:
http://support.seagate.com/seachest/SeaChest_Combo_UserGuides.html

The USB Boot Maker Utility for Windows utilizes the NSIS Installer 
v2.46.5-Unicode (http://nsis.sourceforge.net).

All Linux versions of the SeaChest Utilities are compiled using GCC, the GNU 
Compiler Collection, license shown below.

All Windows versions of the SeaChest Utilities uses an open source project 
named wingetopt, license shown below.

SeaChest_Firmware uses two open source projects named mbedtls and zlib.h, 
licenses shown below.

