======================
Bad LBA (Sector) Found
======================
IMPORTANT: Please read and carefully consider all of the following information
about your "Bad LBA (Logical Block Address, or Sector) Found" options.

A bad sector is a small 512-byte area on the disk drive that is reporting
errors and cannot be accessed properly. New bad sectors, sometimes called grown
defects, are often caused by some kind of physical damage. If a file or folder
uses this sector, then the file is already incomplete or corrupt because the
bytes are not readable.

**** NOTE **** The following information applies only to Seagate Technology,
Maxtor, Samsung and LaCie brand disk drives:

When SeaChest discovers a bad LBA (sector) through reading, it displays a count
of the bad sectors.

Sectors are often not in use. If a sector is in use, then that file is
incomplete or corrupt. When a bad sector happens to align with a folder or
directory listing structure, then the links to files and sub-folders it manages
may be broken.

You should carefully consider the importance of your data. While the sector is
currently unreadable, if the file or folder is important to you then you may
need professional recovery services to possibly reclaim the data. In this case,
select to scan without trying to repair sectors on the drive.

If you have decided that the file or folder is replaceable, already backed up
or just not important to you, then you can tell SeaChest to attempt to attempt
to repair the sector.  See the Sector Repair Commands section above.

By design, modern disk drives maintain spare sectors for reallocation purposes.
Usually, sectors become difficult to read long before they become impossible to
read. In this situation the actual data bytes in the sector are preserved and
transferred to the new spare during a sector reallocation. Similarly, when a
disk drive writes data and encounters a problem, the drive firmware retires the
problem sector and activates a replacement before giving successful write
status.

If you give permission to attempt to repair a bad sector, then SeaChest will
attempt to write a 512-byte pattern of zeros to that single error sector.
Usually, this action will assist the disk drive firmware in managing the
problem by retiring the problem sector and activating a spare in its place. If
the attempted repair fails to reallocate the LBA to an available spare, then
the test is a FAIL and the drive is bad.

Note: Seagate Technology is not responsible for lost user data.

