Welcome to Seagate's openSeaChest_SMART diagnostic software.

Disk drives are constantly monitoring and analyzing their own performance,
integrity and environment.  The current state of this technology is the result
of more than 20 years of innovative Seagate engineering focused on self-testing.

With the backing of personal computer manufacturers, the disk drive industry
adopted an analysis system in the 1990's called Self Monitoring Analysis and
Reporting Technology, or SMART. The idea then and today is to predict a failure
before it happens. Various attributes are being monitored and measured against
certain threshold limits. If any one attribute exceeds a threshold then a
general SATA SMART Status test will change from Pass to Fail.

Many computers automatically check SMART Status when they start up which is
when most people become aware of the issue. If still under warranty, then SMART
Status FAIL is a valid condition for warranty replacement.

You can use openSeaChest_SMART software with --smartCheck to test the SATA SMART
status of the drive.

When a SMART Status test has a FAIL it is extremely important that you back up
all of your important data. SMART Status FAIL is a near-term prediction of
drive failure and the drive usually functions like normal. Unfortunately, there
is no way to specifically predict when the failure will occur, so your best
response is to back up your data as soon as possible.

SeaChest does not interpret attributes or thresholds.  As a practical matter,
the technology supporting SMART is constantly being improved.  Each new design
incorporates improvements that increase the accuracy of the SMART prediction.
As a matter of policy, Seagate does not publish attributes and thresholds.
Seagate Support does not help to analyze SMART attributes.

In addition, the SMART command set includes short and long Drive Self Test
(Offline Immediate).

Seagate drives employ a background media scan (BGMS) during idle activity
times.  The BGMS is a sequential read of sectors from the beginning to the end
the of the drive.  If BGMS is interrupted it later restarts where it left off.
BGMS has no effect on performance.  BGMS collects information about
"suspicious" sectors.  When the Short DST is run the first step is a review of
these "suspicious" sectors.  It is possible for Short DST to fail quickly if
one of these BGMS sectors is unreadable.

It may be possible to repair a problem when Short DST fails due to failure to
read a particular sector (LBA).  You might consider the --seagateClean or
-dstAndClean command line options.  See the sections below "Sector Repair
Commands" and "Bad LBA (Sector) Found" for more information on this subject.

If you wish to test the drive for physical integrity, please use Short Drive
Self Test (--shortDST).  Because the BGMS has continuously collected
information on the entire drive, Short DST is effectively testing the entire
drive.

This User Guide file contains important information about openSeaChest_SMART.
Please read this entire file before using this software.

SeaChest is a comprehensive, easy-to-use command line diagnostic tool that
helps you quickly determine the health and status of your Seagate storage
product. It includes several tests that will examine the physical media on your
Seagate, Samsung or Maxtor disk drive.

Tests and commands which are completely data safe will run on any disk drive.
Tests and commands which change the drive (like firmware download or data
erasure or setting the maximum capacity, etc) are limited to Seagate disk
drives (this includes Seagate, Maxtor, Samsung and LaCie). Be careful using
SeaChest because some of the features, like the data erasure options, will
cause data loss. Seagate is not responsible for lost user data.

Note: One gigabyte, or GB, equals one billion bytes when referring to hard
drive capacity. This software may use information provided by the operating
system to display capacity and volume size. The Windows file system uses a
binary calculation for gibibyte or GiB (2^30) which causes the abbreviated size
to appear smaller. The total number of bytes on a disk drive divided by the
decimal calculation for gigabyte or GB (10^9) shows the expected abbreviated
size. See this FAQ for more information
<http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/172191en?language=en_US>.

If this is your drive, you should always keep a current backup of your
important data.

Usage - Linux (run with sudo)
=============================
        openSeaChest_SMART [-d <sg_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Linux
================
        sudo openSeaChest_SMART --scan
        sudo openSeaChest_SMART -d /dev/sg2 -i
        sudo openSeaChest_SMART -d /dev/sg1 --shortDST --poll

Usage - Windows (run as administrator)
======================================
        openSeaChest_SMART [-d <PD_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Windows
==================
        openSeaChest_SMART --scan
        openSeaChest_SMART -d PD0 -i
        openSeaChest_SMART -d PD1 --shortDST --poll

