Welcome to Seagate's openSeaChest_Info diagnostic software.

Disk drives are constantly monitoring and analyzing their own performance,
integrity and environment.  The current state of this technology is the result
of more than 20 years of innovative Seagate engineering focused on self-testing.

With the backing of personal computer manufacturers, the disk drive industry
adopted an analysis system in the 1990's called Self Monitoring Analysis and
Reporting Technology, or SMART. The idea then and today is to predict a failure
before it happens. Various attributes are being monitored and measured against
certain threshold limits. If any one attribute exceeds a threshold then a
general SATA SMART Status test will change from Pass to Fail.

Many computers automatically check SATA SMART Status when they start up which is
when most people become aware of the issue. If still under warranty, then SMART
Status FAIL is a valid condition for warranty replacement.

You can use SeaChest_Basics or SeaChest_SMART software with --smartCheck to
test the SATA SMART status of the drive.

When a SMART Status test has a FAIL it is extremely important that you back up
all of your important data. SMART Status FAIL is a near-term prediction of
drive failure and the drive usually functions like normal. Unfortunately, there
is no way to specifically predict when the failure will occur, so your best
response is to back up your data as soon as possible.

SMART attributes are also supplemented by SATA Device Statistics Notification
(DSN) feature set, including a set of Device Statistics Notifications log
pages.  This data provides further insight into a drive's performance and can
be used to help measure its usage and potentially identify problem areas of
concern.

Likewise, SAS SCSI and FibreChannel interface products collect ongoing
performance data and save this information in many different "vital data" and
"log" pages, also call Vital Product Data (VPD). This data is similar and
overlaps most of the same data collection categories as the SATA interface.

openSeaChest does not interpret attributes or thresholds.  As a practical matter,
the technology supporting SMART is constantly being improved.  Each new design
incorporates improvements that increase the accuracy of the SMART prediction.
As a matter of policy, Seagate does not publish attributes and thresholds.
Seagate Support does not help to analyze SMART attributes.

This User Guide file contains important information about openSeaChest_Info.
Please read this entire file before using this software.

openSeaChest is a comprehensive, easy-to-use command line diagnostic tool that
helps you quickly determine the health and status of your Seagate storage
product. It includes several tests that will examine the physical media on your
Seagate, Samsung or Maxtor disk drive.

Tests and commands which are completely data safe will run on any disk drive.
Tests and commands which change the drive (like firmware download or data
erasure or setting the maximum capacity, etc) are limited to Seagate disk
drives (this includes Seagate, Maxtor, Samsung and LaCie). Be careful using
openSeaChest because some of the features, like the data erasure options, will
cause data loss. Seagate is not responsible for lost user data.

Note: One gigabyte, or GB, equals one billion bytes when referring to hard
drive capacity. This software may use information provided by the operating
system to display capacity and volume size. The Windows file system uses a
binary calculation for gibibyte or GiB (2^30) which causes the abbreviated size
to appear smaller. The total number of bytes on a disk drive divided by the
decimal calculation for gigabyte or GB (10^9) shows the expected abbreviated
size. See this FAQ for more information
<http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/172191en?language=en_US>.

Usage - Linux (run with sudo)
=============================
        openSeaChest_Info [-d <sg_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Linux
================
        sudo openSeaChest_Info --scan
        sudo openSeaChest_Info -d /dev/sg2 -i

Usage - Windows (run as administrator)
======================================
        openSeaChest_Info [-d <PD_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Windows
==================
        openSeaChest_Info --scan
        openSeaChest_Info -d PD0 -i

