Welcome to Seagate's openSeaChest PassthroughTest diagnostic software.

This User Guide file contains important information about openSeaChest PassthroughTest.
Please read this entire file before using this software.

openSeaChest is a comprehensive, easy-to-use command line diagnostic tool that
helps you quickly determine the health and status of your storage product. It
includes several tests that will examine the physical media on your storage
device.

Many tests and commands are completely data safe, while others will change the
drive (like firmware download or data erasure or setting the maximum capacity,
etc).  Be careful using openSeaChest because some of the features, like the
data erasure options, will cause data loss.   Some commands, like setting the
maximum LBA, may cause existing data on the drive to become inaccessible.  Some
commands, like disabling the read look ahead buffer, may affect the performance
of the drive.  Seagate is not responsible for lost user data.

openSeaChest diagnostics are command line utilities which are available for
expert users.  These command line tools assume the user is knowledgeable about
running software from the operating system command prompt. CLI tools are in the
English language only and use "command line arguments" to define the various
tasks and specific devices.  openSeaChest diagnostics are available for both
Linux and Windows environments.

openSeaChest_PassThroughTest is a comprehensive command line tool that can be
used to identify and analyze the unique quirks which may be present in a
USB-to-SATA or USB-to-NVMe bridge adapter.  The findings from this tool are
studied to help optimize openSeaChest libraries to send the best and safest
device interface commands, which are passed through to the storage device.

NOTE: openSeaChest_PassThroughTest may not be fully functional on non-Seagate
drives.

If this is your drive, you should always keep a current backup of your
important data.

Note: One gigabyte, or GB, equals one billion bytes when referring to hard
drive capacity. This software may use information provided by the operating
system to display capacity and volume size. The Windows file system uses a
binary calculation for gibibyte or GiB (2^30) which causes the abbreviated size
to appear smaller. The total number of bytes on a disk drive divided by the
decimal calculation for gigabyte or GB (10^9) shows the expected abbreviated
size. See this FAQ for more information
<http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/172191en?language=en_US>.

Usage - Linux (run with sudo)
=============================
        openSeaChest_PassthroughTest [-d <sg_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Linux
================
        sudo ./openSeaChest_PassthroughTest --scan
        sudo ./openSeaChest_PassthroughTest -d /dev/sg2 -i
        sudo ./openSeaChest_PassthroughTest -d /dev/sg3 --runPTTest --ptTypeHint sat --ptDriveHint ata --enableHangCmdsTest all

Usage - Windows (run as administrator)
======================================
        openSeaChest_PassthroughTest [-d <device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Windows
==================
        openSeaChest_PassthroughTest --scan
        openSeaChest_PassthroughTest -d PD0 -i
        openSeaChest_PassthroughTest -d PD3 --runPTTest --ptTypeHint sat --ptDriveHint ata --enableHangCmdsTest all

