Welcome to Seagate's openSeaChest_PowerControl diagnostic software.

Optimization within the framework of a complex company data center requires
dynamic technology. As storage capacity demands increase due to virtualization
and growing volumes of data, managing power usage in an intelligent way is
critical for reducing Total Cost of Ownership (TCO).

There are, roughly, three general frameworks for disk drive power management.
The earlier specification is part of Advanced Power Management (APM) which
provided controls over many devices in a system, including disk drives.  APM
has since been replaced by a new framework called Extended Power Controls
(EPC).  Seagate's implementation of EPC began to phase in starting in 2010 and
is named by the marketing term "PowerChoice".  Seagate PowerChoice
technology‚ specifically developed for enterprise environments‚ offers more
energy efficiency and control over the amount of power hard drives consume.

You may need to learn what capabilities for power management your drive offers,
such as supporting APM or EPC, and maybe both.  See the commands
--showEPCSettings or --showAPMLevel(SATA Only) or --deviceInfo for various
reports containing power settings and features supported.  Most enterprise
drives after 2016 only support EPC (PowerChoice).

PowerChoice technology improves on earlier technology and allows for
energy-saving during periods of command inactivity, allowing for greater power
reductions. As idle time increases, the power-saving benefits also increase,
and the drives will still quickly respond to commands even after long idling
periods. In addition, PowerChoice technology supports four customizable modes
to give businesses significantly more control of power usage by allowing for up
to a 54% reduction in the amount of energy used.

See the section below "How PowerChoice Technology Works"

The third and newest drive power management framework exists for SATA drives
and is named PowerBalance.  Seagate's PowerBalance feature will adjust drive
performance during random operations to reduce power consumption of the drive.

This User Guide file contains important information about openSeaChest_PowerControl.
Please read this entire file before using this software.

SeaChest is a comprehensive, easy-to-use command line diagnostic tool that
helps you quickly determine the status of your Seagate storage product.

Tests and commands which are completely data safe will run on any disk drive.
Tests and commands which change the drive (like firmware download or data
erasure or setting the maximum capacity, etc) are limited to Seagate disk
drives (this includes Seagate, Maxtor, Samsung and LaCie). Be careful using
SeaChest because some of the features, like the data erasure options, will
cause data loss. Seagate is not responsible for lost user data.

Note: One gigabyte, or GB, equals one billion bytes when referring to hard
drive capacity. This software may use information provided by the operating
system to display capacity and volume size. The Windows file system uses a
binary calculation for gibibyte or GiB (2^30) which causes the abbreviated size
to appear smaller. The total number of bytes on a disk drive divided by the
decimal calculation for gigabyte or GB (10^9) shows the expected abbreviated
size. See this FAQ for more information
<http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/172191en?language=en_US>.

If this is your drive, you should always keep a current backup of your
important data.

Usage - Linux (run with sudo)
=============================
        openSeaChest_PowerControl [-d <sg_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Linux
================
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl --scan
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg2 -i
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg1 --deviceInfo
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg3 --showEPCSettings
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg2 --idle_a 5000
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg1 --idle_b disable
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg3 --transitionPower standby_z
        sudo openSeaChest_PowerControl -d /dev/sg45 --idle_a 5000 --standby_z 30000 --idle_b enable --idle_c disable

Usage - Windows (run as administrator)
======================================
        openSeaChest_PowerControl [-d <PD_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Windows
==================
        openSeaChest_PowerControl --scan
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD0 -i
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD1 --deviceInfo
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD3 --showEPCSettings
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD2 --idle_a 5000
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD1 --idle_b disable
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD3 --transitionPower standby_z
        openSeaChest_PowerControl -d PD45 --idle_a 5000 --standby_z 30000 --idle_b enable --idle_c disable

