Welcome to Seagate's openSeaChest_Erase diagnostic software.

openSeaChest_Erase is a comprehensive command line tool that can be used to
efficiently erase data on Seagate disk drives (this includes Seagate, Maxtor,
Samsung and LaCie).

NOTE: openSeaChest_Erase may not be fully functional on non-Seagate drives.

NOTE: Windows 8, Windows Server 2012 and newer do not support the Sanitize
command set.

This User Guide file contains important information about openSeaChest_Erase.
Please read this entire file before using this software.

If this is your drive, you should always keep a current backup of your
important data.

If this is not your drive and the original owner has no claim of ownership to
it or the data stored on it, then you may still be responsible for the data in
your possession.   To protect yourself from potential liability and to protect
the previous owner's privacy, you should remove all data by performing a data
erasure on this drive.

Be very careful because using openSeaChest_Erase will cause data loss. Seagate is
not responsible for lost user data.

Important note: Many tests in this tool directly reference storage device data
sectors, also known as Logical Block Addresses (LBA). Test arguments may
require a starting LBA or an LBA range.  The predefined variable 'maxLBA'
refers to the last sector on the drive.  Many older SATA and SAS storage
controllers (also known as Host Bus Adapters [HBA]) have a maximum addressable
limit of 4294967295 [FFFFh] LBAs hard wired into their design.  This equates to
2.1TB using 512 byte sectors.  This also means accessing an LBA beyond the
2.1TB limitation either will result in an error or simply the last readable LBA
(usually LBA 4294967295 [FFFFh]) depending on the actual hardware.  This
limitation can have important consequences.  For example, if you intended to
erase a 4TB drive, then only the first 2TB will actually get erased (or maybe
even twice!) and the last 2TB will remain untouched.  You should carefully
evaluate your system hardware to understand if your storage controllers provide
support for greater than 2.1TB.

Note: One gigabyte, or GB, equals one billion bytes when referring to hard
drive capacity. This software may use information provided by the operating
system to display capacity and volume size. The Windows file system uses a
binary calculation for gibibyte or GiB (2^30) which causes the abbreviated size
to appear smaller. The total number of bytes on a disk drive divided by the
decimal calculation for gigabyte or GB (10^9) shows the expected abbreviated
size. See this FAQ for more information
<http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/172191en?language=en_US>.

NOTE: Windows 8, Windows Server 2012 and newer do not support the Sanitize
command set.

Usage - Linux (run with sudo)
=============================
        openSeaChest_Erase [-d <sg_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Linux
================
        sudo openSeaChest_Erase --scan
        sudo openSeaChest_Erase -d /dev/sg2 -i
        sudo openSeaChest_Erase --device /dev/sg1 --sanitize info

Usage - Windows (run as administrator)
======================================
        openSeaChest_Erase [-d <PD_device>] {arguments} {options}

Examples - Windows
==================
        openSeaChest_Erase --scan
        openSeaChest_Erase -d PD2 -i
        openSeaChest_Erase --device PD1 --sanitize info

